New theorems with pi-character (#1807)
pi-base/data: theorems/T000910.md

---
uid: T000910
if:
  and:
  - P000222: true
  - P000244: true
then:
  P000057: true
---

> Let $x \in X$ and $\mathcal{V}$ be a countable local $\pi$-base around $x$. Set $W = \bigcup\{X \setminus V: V \in \mathcal{V}\}$. For any $y \neq x$, $X \setminus \{y\}$ is a neighbourhood of $x$ and so there is $V \in \mathcal{V}$ with $V \subseteq X \setminus \{y\}$. Therefore $y \in X \setminus V \subseteq W$ so, since $y$ was arbitrary, $X \setminus \{x\} \subseteq W$. But $W$ is a countable union of finite sets, so $W$ is countable, so $X$ is countable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let $x \in X$ and let $\mathcal{V}$ be a countable local $\pi$-base around $x$.
The complement of every $V\in\mathcal V$ is finite; so $W := \bigcup\{X \setminus V: V \in \mathcal{V}\}$ is countable.
For any point $y \neq x$, $X \setminus \{y\}$ is a neighbourhood of $x$ and so there is some $V \in \mathcal{V}$ with $V \subseteq X \setminus \{y\}$.
Therefore $y \in X \setminus V \subseteq W$.
It follows that $X \setminus \{x\} \subseteq W$ and $X$ is countable.
```
reordered slightly to make it easier to follow.  But it's optional.  You don't have to apply this if you prefer not.

> Observe that the above argument only requires some point to have a countable local $\pi$-base, not every point.

Reviewer: The last paragraph is irrelevant (and X is homogeneous anyway).  Remove.

Author: Yeah, I realized that.
